
## 2.1 Principles of network applications

Examples of network applications)
- e-mail
- web
- text messaging
- remote login
- VoIP
- streaming

Creating a network application is creating an application that runs on different end-systems.
Base on 'End to End principle', we don't need to write software for network-core devices.
Writing that kind of low-level software gives us lower productivity, on the other hand, we can take an advantage of lightweight development if we working on user application side.

### client - server architecture

**server**
- server always keep active state to handle client requests
- server use permanent IP address
- there are many data centers for scaling purpose

**clients**
- client communicate with server
- temporalily connected to server
- may have dynamic IP addreses and port
- client doesn't communicate with other clients if it is not peer to peer architecture.

### P2P architecture
- In this architecture, any clients(hosts) can talk to each other
- The performance of p2p network depends on the number of clients involved in the communication. The more clients involves in, the more the service become performative.
- ex) block chain, bit torrent

### Process communication
- Process is a set of code or can be called as a program running on hosts.
- Within same hosts, process can talk to each other using Inter-process communication protocol.
- If two processes are running on different hosts, but they can still communicate with each other if they rely on same remote procedure call protocol.

### Sockets
- A process sends/receives message to/from its socket.
- Then handle the messages in application.
- To receive messages, the process must have identifer. For example, ip address !
- But IP address itself is not sufficient to identify a specific process because many processes can have same ip address.
- With this reason, we need 'port' number to identify process exactly.
	- ex) HTTP uses 80

### Application layer protocol
Application protocol defines below :
- types of messages exchanged
- message syntax
- message semantics
- rules for when and how processes send & repsond to messages.

Which transport service an application should choose?
It can vary depending on requirements of the application

1. Reliable transfer
	This is important feature in file transfer applications and trnasactions
2. Timing(jitter)
	Some apps like game and video call require low delay.
	Note that timing is different term with delay
3. Throughput
	Some application is sensitive to throughput.
	For example, If an application encode human voice with 32 kbps , transport protocol should follow this througput. If not, application may need to encode faster.
	 There are some elastic applications that follows bandwidth given condition.
4. Security
	Provide confidentiality,integrity and authentication
	
## 2.2 Web and HTTP


## 2.4 DNS


## 2.7 socket programming with UDP and TCP
