
**Types of programming language :**
1. compiler language
   just takes program and the compiler makes it executable. The standalone executable file takes data and makes outputs related to the input data.
2. intepreter language
   on-line language. takes program & data, then interpreter generates output during runtime.

**An example of compiler - fortran 1**
The architecture is :
1. syntatic aspect analysis
	1.1 lexical analysis
	1.2 parsing
2. semantic analysis
3. optimizations
4. code generation

---

# Structure of a compiler

Again five major phases are :
1. lexical analysis : divides program text into a unit of 'words' or 'tokens'
    ex) With a sentence `if x == y then z = 1; else z = 2;`,
    The tokens would be `if, then, else`/ `==, =` / `x,y,z` and so on (spacing is also token). 
2.  parsing : 
	 a program text : `if x == y then z = 1; else z = 2;`   
	- relation (`x == y`) -> predicate
	- assign (`z = 1, z = 2`) -> then-statement and else statement
	Above components construct a single parse tree
3. semantic analysis
4. optimizations
	Automatically modify programs to run faster and use less memory.
	Additional considerations :
	- less power usage
	- less network message size
	- less number of database accesses.
	The example of optimization shown as below :
	`X = Y * 0` is the same as `X = 0` if and only if the type of `X` is integer. (Based on ieee floating point number standard, $NAN \times 0 = NAN$ )
5. code generation
	 - produces assembly code.
	 - a translation into another language. 

# Ambiguity in language (semantic analysis)

For example, there is a sentence that can be interpreted into various meaning.
`Jack said Jerry left his homework`.
In this case, Does `his` mean `Jack` or `Jarry`? Or even someone else?

This kind of sentences holds 'ambiguity'.

In programming language, we may have same problem. Hence, The programming languages has their own syntax to prevent this problem in advance.

The semicolon (line separator) and scope are the example of the prevention techniques.
```cpp
{
	int jack = 3;
	{
		int jack = 4; // this jack is different with above jack because it lives in different scope.
		cout << jack; // this will print out '4'
	}
}
```


# Portion changes in each stages.

While a compiler tools have been evolved, now we are spending more time on semantic analysis, optimization stage.
Especially we give 'optimization stage' a lot of ratio of compile time relatively. 

---

# Programming language economy

Three main questions :
- why are there so many programming languages?
	- Each of application domains has distinctive needs. 
	- One application focuses on realtime performance while the other may want to get precision in computations.
	- It is almost impossible for a single programming language to fit into the requirements from every applications in this world.


- why are there new programming language?
	- Both designing programming language and implementing compiler for the language are not that expensive compared to educating the programmers about the language.
	- In this sense, we can predict that widely-used language(which has mature community) are slow to change. Because if there are any new critical changes in language spec, the tons of users need to know and learn about it.
	- In contrast to above case, it is relatively easy to start new language. (zero user!)
	- new language tends to look like old language (ex. way to initialize variables, type name) to reduce training cost.


- what is a good programming language?
	- There is no universally accepted language. (languages are alwasy controversial)